Think about the last time
you experienced a change.
Did you feel uncomfortable, scared, frustrated?
Or were you excited to experience something new?
Leaving the comfort and safety
of the known for the unknown
can be difficult,
which is why organizations
must manage change well.
Change management refers
to the process of implement a change
and the skill of guiding people through change.
Before we dive into change management fundamentals,
let's first review
what organizational change means.
Organizations undergo many types of change.
The change may be planned,
like instituting a new software platform,
or unplanned, like responding to a crisis.
Whether planned or unplanned,
change typically falls
into one of three categories.
Developmental change
is the most common type of change
and it encompasses improvements
to current procedures.
Examples of developmental change include
shifts in performance expectations
and updates to procedures.
Transitional change
is more complex
and requires letting go of something old
and embracing something new.
Examples of transitional change
include technology adoptions, mergers,
or the addition of new products and services.
Transformational change
is the most radical type of change
and results in a fundamental shift
in the organization.
At the outset of transformational change,
the future is largely unknown.
This change includes major cultural shifts,
drastic reform of a company's offerings,
or significant changes to the business model.
Responding to change effectively begins
with understanding what is prompting it.
External forces of change
originate outside the company.
These are factors primarily
outside an organization's control.
Internal forces of change
develop within the company's environment.
Let's look at some common examples
of external and internal forces of change.
Some common examples of
external forces of change
in an organization include
technological innovations,
especially those that become the industry norm
or significantly improve
the current technology.
Government forces
like changes in the political landscape,
new regulations or deregulation efforts.
Economic forces like a recession,
supply chain disruptions,
or fluctuations in supply and demand.
Competitive forces such as
pressure from new or existing competitors,
emerging markets,
or the introduction
of global competitors.
And customer driven forces
like persistent negative customer feedback,
the loss of customers to competitors,
or shifting customer expectations.
Internal forces of change typically begin
with dissatisfaction with the status quo
and the desire to get to some future state.
Let's take a look
at some examples of internal forces of change.
Some common examples of
internal forces of change
in an organization include
the introduction of new leadership,
especially when new leaders prompt a shift
in the company's culture or values.
Low performance or consistent failure
to meet expectations,
requiring a change to remedy it.
Structural issues like the persistent lack
of cross-functional communication,
managerial staff changes,
or the lack of cooperation between teams.
An internal crisis
like a lawsuit, employee strike, or scandal.
Cost cutting measures such as layoffs
or significant budget reductions.
And a changing workforce,
like an influx of younger workers
who have significant generational differences
from their older, outgoing counterparts.
Regardless of the type of change
a company faces,
the change will likely cause disruptions.
The goal of change management
is to minimize disruptions
and successfully navigate change.
Understanding two key aspects
of change management can guide the way.
The first function
of change management
is establishing a process.
This includes all the steps necessary
to guide an organization
through the phases of change.
Including recognizing the need for change,
proposing a change,
assessing readiness,
planning and implementing the change,
and ongoing monitoring of the changes effectiveness.
The second function of change management
is as a competency
and includes everything necessary
to guide people through change.
This is often referred
to as the people side of change.
Empowering employees to embrace change
through communication, support, and training
are important components of change management.
Let's face it.
In work, as in life,
change is inevitable.
Despite knowing that change
is always around the corner,
it can still induce anxiety,
insecurity and fear.
A framework for change management
can mitigate the risks
and negative emotions
associated with change.
Let's take a look at some benefits
of change management.
First, change management increases
the likelihood of a successful change.
Research indicates that nearly half
of organizational changes
result in failure,
but organizations that apply change management
practices fare much better.
Why?
Because a planned approach
allows organizations to be proactive
instead of reactive
and avoid common obstacles
like low adoption rates,
employee resistance and wasted resources.
Second, being prepared for change
prevents an organization
from becoming stagnant.
In today's rapidly changing marketplace,
organizations must be willing
and agile to embrace change.
Failing to prepare for change
may result in missed opportunity.
Finally, change management
can improve morale during transitions.
Being blindsided by change
or not having enough information to
understand its purpose
can create feelings of unease
and uncertainty for employees.
Effective change management
includes communication strategies,
and the support and resources necessary
to guide people through change
in a healthy way.
Mismanaged change can cause heart feelings,
confusion and even chaos.
The only certainty is that change will come
and organizations ready to meet it
with a robust change management plan
will have a far better chance of success.